# Path planning algorithm for semi-autonomous mobile robots with fast and accurate collision checking
Master thesis of Kevin Denis, under supervision of Professor Demeester and Professor Bruyninckx, mentored by Johan Philips. 

## Abstract
This thesis aims to improve the current local path planning algorithm developed at the Department of Mechanical Engineering of the KU Leuven. The algorithm is used in the context of navigation assistance of electric-powered wheelchairs for the elderly or disabled. The paths obtained from the local path planner are used to model the wheelchair user's intention as well as the path the wheelchair will take. This assistance will help the user to navigate more effectively in challenging situations such as passing through narrow door openings.

Based on the Local Path Template method, which consists of a fixed set of paths starting from the current position and orientation of the robot, the planning algorithm uses an efficient lookup table to adjust each individual trajectory length according to the environment, to obtain collision-free paths.

The current algorithm only uses circular local paths, which is only a small subset of the feasible trajectories a wheelchair can execute. The main contribution of this thesis is to expand this set of local paths by using another curve geometry, the clothoid, a curve whose curvature changes linearly with its arc length. These different paths are generated by using a local version of the State Lattice method, creating Motion Primitives which comply with the wheelchair's kinematic constraints. 

A conceptual solution is presented to enable this new path planner to plan a path considering dynamic obstacles. By using a motion model of a moving obstacle, the dynamic planner calculates a safe velocity profile for the fixed set of paths to yield a collision-free motion along each path.

Other aspects highlighted in this thesis include human-aware robot navigation, a novel research area combining robot navigation with the emerging research area of human-robot interaction. This combination will enable the design of a socially compliant path planner which inherently respects non-written rules of human interaction. A human-robot cooperation model developed in recent literature will be presented as a possible solution to enable the wheelchair to navigate effectively in densely crowded areas.

In comparison to its predecessor the circular path planner, the developed clothoid-based planner achieves substantially improved planning capacity when a more complex path is needed to reach a certain goal. This comes at a cost: the clothoid planner generates six times more paths than the circular planner, which in total take four times longer to process.

## Repository  organization

### [Administration](adm)
Here, all the administrative matter for this thesis is stored (e.g. logs, meeting rapport, etc.).

### [Literature](lit)
Here, the majority of the cited articles within this thesis are available in this directory.

### [Source code](src)
Here, all the source code used for this thesis is presented.

### [Paper](ppr)
Here, the source code for the final master's thesis paper the and pdf's will be available. Here are also all the original figures.

### [Presentation](prs)
Here, the source code for the presentation (midterm and final) and pdf's are available.

### [Publication](pub)
Here, the publication in a Conference Proceeding (presented at [ICAPS 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oWDkkJ2ZbM0), published in [ICAPS 2019](https://aaai.org/ojs/index.php/ICAPS/article/view/3537)) is available.